FlowFuse Software's bills of material helps enhance Application Security and Management (#2666)
FlowFuse/website: src/blog/2024/10/exploring-flowfuse-sbom-feature.md

---
title: FlowFuse Software's bills of material helps enhance Application Security and Management

> subtitle: Enhancing the Security of Your Node-RED Applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subtitle: Enhancing the Security and Compliance of Your Solutions
```

> description: Learn how the FlowFuse SBOM feature improves the security and management of Node-RED applications by tracking dependencies and identifying vulnerabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how FlowFuse SBOM improves the security and management of Node-RED solutions by tracking dependencies and identifying vulnerabilities.
```

date: 2024-10-14
authors: ["sumit-shinde"]
image: 
tags:
 - post
 - flowfuse
 - enhancing node-red security
 - flowfuse software bills of material
---

> FlowFuse recently launched its Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) feature for enterprise customers. This powerful tool enhances security and management within projects, particularly in the Node-RED ecosystem. As open-source libraries and software continue to play a pivotal role in the industry, monitoring third-party components used in projects becomes essential. The SBOM enables organizations to track dependencies and identify vulnerabilities, ensuring compliance and mitigating risks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FlowFuse recently launched Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) for enterprise customers. This powerful tool enhances security and management within projects, particularly in the Node-RED ecosystem. As open-source libraries and software continue to play a pivotal role in the industry, monitoring third-party components used in projects becomes essential. The SBoM enables organizations to track dependencies and identify vulnerabilities, ensuring compliance and mitigating risks.
```

<!--more-->

> In this article, we will explore the SBOM feature and discuss how it impacts security and management in Node-RED applications.

Reviewer: The intro told this already?
```suggestion
```

## What is an SBOM, and How Does It Enhance Security?

A Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) is a detailed list of all the components that make up a software application, just like how a bill of materials for a physical product lists every part used in its construction, an SBOM provides a breakdown of all the software libraries, packages, and dependencies used in a project.

This transparency is crucial for security, allowing developers and organizations to track what’s inside their software. By knowing precisely what components are in use, you can quickly identify outdated or vulnerable dependencies that may pose security risks. An SBOM helps you monitor third-party nodes, ensuring that any related security issues can be addressed promptly and reducing the chance of vulnerabilities being exploited.

## Exploring the FlowFuse SBOM Feature

> **[FlowFuse](/)** is a platform that makes it easy to remotely manage multiple Node-RED instances from one place. It helps teams collaborate efficiently, share resources, and scale applications with a user-friendly interface. FlowFuse also includes strong security features to prevent unauthorized access and advanced controls to manage the security of each team and application, allowing you to group and manage your Node-RED applications effectively.

Reviewer: Let's move away from "Remote" in favour of "Edge". I also feel like this "pitch" might not have a place in this article, and even if you include it it should be more in line with the FF messaging page in the handbook: https://flowfuse.com/handbook/customer/marketing/messaging/#messaging

### Accessing FlowFuse SBOM Interface

The Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) interface is available at the application level. For more information on the application, refer to the [Documentation](https://flowfuse.com/docs/user/concepts/#application). To access it:

1. Navigate to your Node-RED application within the FlowFuse platform.

![Image showing the 'Applications' option in the FlowFuse platform](./images/applications-options-in-the-ff.png){data-zoomable}
_Image showing the 'Applications' option in the FlowFuse platform._

2. Click the **Dependencies** option at the top to switch to the SBOM interface.

![Image showing the 'Dependencies' option in the FlowFuse platform for the SBOM interface.](./images/dependencies-tab-option.png){data-zoomable}
_Image showing the 'Dependencies' option in the FlowFuse platform for the SBOM interface._

> *Note: This feature is only available for FlowFuse Enterprise self-hosted and Enterprise Tier users.*

Reviewer: If the deploy method doens't matter, let's not mention it:

```suggestion
*Note: This feature is only available for FlowFuse Enterprise customers.*
```

1. **Monitor Regularly**: Check your SBOM often to identify outdated or vulnerable packages. Staying updated can prevent potential security threats.

2. **Upgrade Packages**: If you find any packages flagged for vulnerabilities, upgrade them promptly. This will help secure your application and improve performance.

3. **Assess Third-Party Nodes**: Review the third-party nodes you use. If any lack regular updates, consider alternatives to ensure your application remains secure and well-maintained.

Adopting these practices in your development routine will enhance your applications' security and cultivate a proactive maintenance culture. Security is a team effort, and staying vigilant about your dependencies is essential for protecting your projects. The FlowFuse SBOM feature is an invaluable auditing tool, accessible to all team members with the appropriate permissions, allowing everyone to contribute to maintaining security seamlessly.

**[Sign up](https://app.flowfuse.com/) for FlowFuse now and enjoy a free trial to explore all our features! Discover how you can enhance your Node-RED projects and accelerate your production processes.**

> *If you are an educator or student, we offer support and provide free licenses. Contact us for more information [here](/education/).*

Reviewer: Do they get Team access, or Enterprise?

---

> title: How the FlowFuse SBOM Feature Enhances Node-RED Application Security and Management

Reviewer 2: A better title that doesn't make it sound like a tutorial or documentation and more like a blog/article would be "FlowFuse SBoM helps enhance Node-RED Application Security and Management" Something like this also invokes curiosity to find out how

subtitle: A Guide to Enhancing Your Node-RED Application's Security
description: Learn how the FlowFuse SBOM feature improves the security and management of Node-RED applications by tracking dependencies and identifying vulnerabilities.
date: 2024-10-14
authors: ["sumit-shinde"]
image: 
tags:
 - post
 - flowfuse
 - enhancing node-red security
 - flowfuse software bills of material
---

> In recent times, open-source projects have become the backbone of the software industry. These projects are free to use, widely adopted, and regularly maintained by active communities to ensure they remain secure. Node-RED, for example, benefits from a dedicated community that updates and monitors the core platform. However, not all open-source projects or components are maintained with the same level of attention. This can lead to security risks and vulnerabilities, particularly with third-party nodes in Node-RED's vast ecosystem. While some nodes have a solid community to contribute, update, and monitor, others may not receive regular updates or security patches, which introduces potential vulnerabilities.

Reviewer 2: I would rework this intro to be something more like "Recently FlowFuse announced Software Build of Materials (SBOM) feature available to enterprise customers. SBOM is great for....."

_Image showing the 'Applications' option in the FlowFuse platform._

2. Click the **Dependencies** option at the top to switch to the SBOM interface.

![Image showing the 'Dependencies' option in the FlowFuse platform for the SBOM interface.](./images/dependencies-tab-option.png){data-zoomable}
_Image showing the 'Dependencies' option in the FlowFuse platform for the SBOM interface._

*Note: This feature is only available for FlowFuse Enterprise self-hosted and Enterprise Tier users.*

### Understanding What the SBOM Interface Shows

Once you navigate the tab, you will see a list of all the packages installed within your Node-RED Cloud instances and devices associated with that application. This includes the package names and versions, the number of devices and instances using each version, and additional details such as the latest available version of each package and the time since its release.

![Image showing the Dependencies tab along with the detailed notes of each item displayed.](./images/the-dependency-tab-info.png){data-zoomable}
_Image showing the Dependencies tab along with the detailed notes of each item displayed._

> ### Now What? Make the Most of SBOM

Reviewer 2: I would suggest moving this section up and saying "here's how you can use SBOM:

2. **Upgrade Packages**: If you find any packages flagged for vulnerabilities, upgrade them promptly. This will help secure your application and improve performance.

3. **Assess Third-Party Nodes**: Review the third-party nodes you use. If any lack regular updates, consider alternatives to ensure your application remains secure and well-maintained.

Adopting these practices in your development routine will enhance your applications' security and cultivate a proactive maintenance culture. Security is a team effort, and staying vigilant about your dependencies is essential for protecting your projects. The FlowFuse SBOM feature is an invaluable auditing tool, accessible to all team members with the appropriate permissions, allowing everyone to contribute to maintaining security seamlessly.

**[Sign up](https://app.flowfuse.com/) for FlowFuse now and enjoy a free trial to explore all our features! Discover how you can enhance your Node-RED projects and accelerate your production processes.**

*If you are an educator or student, we offer support and provide free licenses. Contact us for more information [here](/education/).*

> ### Conclusion

Reviewer 2: Since this is not a very long article and there is nothing too much you are saying new in the summary you can skip the conclusion section and end with the call to action above.
